+++
title = "Black And Latinx People Benefit From Free 7-Month Virtual Coding Class"
date = 2021-02-09
draft = false
tags = ['press']
+++

Reskill Americans is launching tuition-free online software development training
for historically underrepresented minorities throughout the U.S. Unlike other
coding programs, Reskill Americans is solving the problem of access by
eliminating typical barriers to entry such as tuition cost, prior software
development knowledge, or other educational requirements.

The inaugural program begins March 15, 2021, and is accepting 1,000 participants
who enroll by March 7, 2021. To get an opportunity to launch a career in tech,
enroll at ReskillAmericans.org.

“We want to live in a world where the minority representation in the tech sector
mirrors its representation in the U.S. population,” said Femi Akinde, Co-Founder
of Reskill Americans. “To address this, we’ve created a software training model
that scales up access to thousands of underrepresented racial minorities to help
them build a career in this growth industry.”

Training Provides Participants Required Skills for Software Development Jobs

Participants can learn from anywhere, at any time, as long as they stay on track
with weekly assignments. The program includes mentorship and provides
participants the following:

Virtual internship experiences Portfolio of work to show your future employers
Skills needed to apply for tech internships and jobs Tailored instruction for
relevant programming languages for all skill levels Reskill Americans enables
scaled-up access to tuition-free training in the U.S. by customizing a proven,
low-cost online training model. HNG Tech, the African online training and
virtual internship platform, has enrolled 25,000 students across Africa into
various software development specializations. HNG Tech has secured sponsorships
from Google, Slack and GitHub and has partnered with Oracle and Figma.

“My instructors were really good people who wanted to explain things to me,”
said Ore Ogundipe, who completed HNG’s program and is now a software engineer
for Azure at Microsoft. “I learned things from that period that I still apply
every day in my job.”

Reskill Americans is a diverse group of tech executives that each have more than
20 years of experience in the industry.

“Unlike most open online courses, our participants will get lots of
individualized support: they are assigned a mentor to guide them through the
program and there’s a low student-to-instructor ratio,” said Mike Koss,
Co-Founder and CTO. Mike was a founding developer for some of Microsoft’s most
iconic programs in the 1980s, and focuses on curriculum and mentorship at
Reskill Americans.