+++
title = "Frequently Asked Questions"
date = 2021-12-21T16:43:31-08:00
draft = false
tags = []
layout = "document"

[[process]]
name = "accordian"
selector = "h3"
stop = "h2"
+++

## Getting Started

<hr>

### What do I need to be a part of the program?

You need a computer with internet access, a passion to learn, determination to
stick with it, and legal authorization to work in the U.S.

### What does the program cost?

If you’re an underrepresented racial minority, our program is free

### Is there an age limit?

We accept anyone 16 and over. But adults under the age of 18 must have their
parents/guardian complete a parental consent waiver.  There is no age limit.

### Will there be materials or books that we need to purchase?

No books or materials to purchase for this program. Curriculum and courses will
be online and at no expense to you.

### Do I need to have any basic knowledge of software development before I begin this course?

No, you do not need to have any prior knowledge of software development to
enroll in our program. That being said, if you already know which track you want
to work in, you can do more research on that track to get familiar with the
terms.

### Does this course allow you to participate while working full-time?

Yes, our program is structured for you to complete it on your own schedule as
long as you complete your assignments on time. In our 2021 cohort, many
participants took our program while juggling jobs or school; that being said,
the program is very rigorous and demands a minimum of 15 hours per week focused
on studying, completing assignments, and meeting with mentors and instructors.
We will also provide twice-weekly mentor and peer-group video conference calls
to accommodate your schedule.

### What happens if I quit midway?

We understand that software development can be overwhelming for a lot of people,
especially beginners. We will do all we can to support you throughout the
program. If you do decide to leave, you can re-enroll in the next cohort.

I’m not a very fast learner. Do you think I can become a technology expert in 7
months?

Whatever your level of knowledge is about the industry, our instructors and
mentors will meet you at that level and work with you to address your questions.
While it is not possible to become an expert in just seven months (expertise
takes years of experience), we will give you everything you need to get started
and the resources required to grow.

## Program Details

<hr>

### Can I skip the Intro Phase if I already have some tech experience?

NEED ANSWER HERE

### It says you must finish an assignment to move to the next phase: will there be a deadline to complete the final assignment in each Phase?

NEED ANSWER HERE

### Can I catch up if I miss a live class?

Yes, you will have the opportunity to meet weekly with your mentor and with peer group video calls to have your questions answered.

### Do we get a certificate at the end?

Participants who complete the program will receive a certificate of completion in their specific track.

### Are classes at a set time and length, etc.?

There’s no set timetable: the timing of each class all depends on the instructor and participants’ needs and schedules, so timing will vary for each class. Instructors will ask when it’s convenient for people to meet and they’ll select the most popular time.

### For individuals who work days, will live zoom meetings/classes be available as a recording?

Yes. Participants who miss the scheduled classes will still have an opportunity to watch a recording to catch up.

### At the end of the program, will there be an exam?

There are no final exams in this program. During the different phases of the program, however, you will be required to complete milestones (assignments) in order to continue to the next level. You will have a final project and present in a Demo Day that will demonstrate your knowledge of your new skills.

### Is there a curriculum you can provide for the 7-month program?

We will offer a detailed curriculum before you begin the Intro Phase.

### Is there a way to form study groups with other students?

Absolutely. We encourage teamwork and often see participants offering to mentor each other. Even if you’re not paired with someone, we still encourage participants to form a study group.

### Can we finish the program earlier than 7 months?

No. In order to successfully complete the program you must successfully move through all phases. If you need more time, you can re-enroll in the next cohort. (Date TBA)

## Tracks

<hr>

### What resources will be provided to make a decision about choosing a track?

The different tracks, their applications, and career trajectories will be introduced and explained in detail during the orientation week so that you have as much information as possible to make an informed decision.

### What are the skills I will learn in the Product Design UI/UX track?

In the Product Design track, you will learn the following skills: User Interface Design, User Experience, Prototyping, Research & Testing.

### What are the programming languages I will learn in the Full Stack Web Development track?

You will learn the basic of CSS and HTML and build your own web page, and then we will continue on to JavaScript programming language. For a complete list of the CSS, HTML and JavaScript skills that you will use, please go here.

### Are there any software/hardware recommendations?

You can use any computer or laptop /desktop, Mac or Windows. In terms of RAM, we recommend the following for each track:

For full stack web development: Min. 4GB RAM

For product design UX/UI:  Min. 4GB

## Support & Community

<hr>

### Can I get a 1-one-1 session with my instructor if I don’t understand a topic?

Yes, our instructors offer office hours and you will have the opportunity to meet with them individually, if needed.

### What is your student-to-instructor ratio?

NEED ANSWER HERE

### For individuals who work during the day, will live zoom meetings/classes be available as a recording?

Yes. Participants who miss the scheduled classes will still have an opportunity to watch a recording to catch up.

### How do we get exposure to the tech community during the training?

We host virtual Town Halls regularly throughout the program: tech experts participate in a Q&A (questions from both staff and participants) and share details about their career paths, typical day on the jobs, qualities they seek when recruiting, and general career advice. We also host Job Fairs with recruiters who discuss current open roles or internships and how you can apply.

In 2021, we hosted over 20 professionals from a range of companies, including: a developer advocate at Google, a software architect at Microsoft, software leaders at Sonos, a data scientist at Fred Hutchinson, a director of innovation at Bright Machines, an internship recruiter at Amazon, as well as startup entrepreneurs and UX/UI designers.  To learn more, check out our YouTube channel or our Partner page. (insert link)

### What sort of job search support does the program provide?

Throughout the program, we offer assistance with job preparedness and help you market yourself for a new career. We provide training on how to write a compelling resume and LinkedIn profile and opportunities for tech professionals to review them, and we help you promote your work on GitHub. You will also receive interview training and mock interviews from tech professionals.

We are committed to helping you get on a path to a tech career: when you complete the program, the professional training will end, but our job search support and resources will continue.
